docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. SilviMetric documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Dec 21 12:08:43 2023.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

================================================================================
SilviMetric
================================================================================

SilviMetric is an open source library and set of utilities from
`Hobu, Inc. <https://hobu.co>`__ that are useful for summarizing point cloud
data into raster and raster-like products.

Find out more about SilviMetric by visiting :ref:`about`. A slide deck about
SilviMetric is also available on `Google Slides <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1E561EgWwLgN5R9P0LBxuI1r7kG155u8E6-MOWpkycSM/edit?usp=sharing>`__.

.. toctree::
   :caption: Contents
   :maxdepth: 2

   about
   cli/index
   api/index
   QuickStart <quickstart>
   development
   tutorial



.. include:: substitutions.txt


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Add colab link to main page of docs (#88)
* Adding link to the google colab notebook into the main page of docs

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. SilviMetric documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Dec 21 12:08:43 2023.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

================================================================================
SilviMetric
================================================================================

SilviMetric is an open source library and set of utilities from
`Hobu, Inc. <https://hobu.co>`__ that are useful for summarizing point cloud
data into raster and raster-like products.

Find out more about SilviMetric by visiting :ref:`about`. A slide deck about
SilviMetric is also available on `Google Slides <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1E561EgWwLgN5R9P0LBxuI1r7kG155u8E6-MOWpkycSM/edit?usp=sharing>`__,
and examples are available for viewing in `Google Colab <https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1u3Qdq3Fdy2du36WG823rKVlQtBL8eK0g#scrollTo=kY0ikB6JQ2G7>`__.


.. toctree::
   :caption: Contents
   :maxdepth: 2

   about
   cli/index
   api/index
   QuickStart <quickstart>
   development
   tutorial



.. include:: substitutions.txt


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
